Add docs for Flow server side modality (#1236)
vaadin/docs: articles/flow/advanced/server-side-modality.asciidoc

.Adding a modal component
[source,java]
----
// Add a modal component, and make the rest of the UI inert
UI.getCurrent().addModal(component);

/* other code*/

// Remove the modal component. The UI will no longer be inert.
UI.getCurrent().remove(component);
----

To make an already added component modal, use [methodname]`UI.setChildComponentModal(Component, boolean)`.

.Making a component modal
[source,java]
----
// Make a component modal, and make the rest of the UI inert
UI.getCurrent().setChildComponentModal(component, true);

/* other code*/

// Make the component non modal. The UI will no longer be inert.
UI.getCurrent().setChildComponentModal(component, false);
----

== Adding to Modal Component

Adding a component to the currently active modal component use `UI.addToModalComponent(Component)` which will add the component under the current modal component.

This is meant to be used with components that are not added as part of a  layout, like dialog, so that they are interactive when a modal component opens up an overlay component.

To check if there is a defined modal component use `UI.hasModalComponent`.

> This is usually needed if a new component is added, and it should be usable it needs to be added under the modal component.

Reviewer: Can't understand the meaning of this statement, maybe due to my poor English. Can you please clarify it to me?
```
and it should be usable it needs to be added under the modal component
```

[NOTE]

> Using `addToModalComponent(Component)` when there is no active modal component the component will be added to the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `addToModalComponent(Component)` when there is no active modal component, the component will be added to the UI.
```

== Demo

> An example project called https://github.com/taefi/server-modality-demo[server-modality-demo] is available that
> represents the usages of above APIs. It contains 3 views which shows some example possibilities of using
> server-modality:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example project called https://github.com/taefi/server-modality-demo[server-modality-demo] is available to
present the usages of above APIs. It contains 3 views which shows some example possibilities of using
server-modality:
```

---
title: Server-Side Modality
description: How to prevent interactions on the server side.
order: 700
layout: page
---

= Server-Side Modality

A dialog with a client-side modality curtain alone does not disable the UI to which it belongs to on the server side. If the dialog or its modality curtain is removed from the DOM on the client side, its parent UI remains active on the server and can be interacted with.

> To fully prevent interactions with components that are underneath a modal dialog (or any modal component, for that matter) Flow has a feature called server-side modality. This feature makes Flow ignore interactions with all other components as long as a modal dialog is open. The components underneath the modal component are said to be _inert_, that is, they are not available for interaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To fully prevent interactions with components that are underneath a modal dialog (or any modal component, for that matter) Flow has a feature called server-side modality.
This feature makes Flow ignore interactions with all components that are not childern of the modal component while it is attached or marked as modal.
The components that are not children of the modal component are said to be _inert_, that is, they are not available for interaction.
```

> The server-side modality feature only prevents interaction, but does not show a modality curtain or change the visible state of the components in the UI. Those should be handled by the component separately. Thus this is purely a server side security feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the server-side modality feature is purely a server side security feature that only prevents interaction, it does not add a modality curtain or change the visible state of the components in the UI. 
Adding a modality curtain should be handled by the component.
```

Router Links, and navigation in general, are an exception. Navigation is allowed also when inert as there is no way to entirely block navigation on the server side.

> The [classname]`UI` class provides methods that allow working with the server side modality feature. The following Vaadin components make use of the feature: Dialog, Notification and Login View. Those

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [classname]`UI` class provides methods that allow working with the server side modality feature. 
The following Vaadin components make use of the feature: Dialog, Notification and Login View.
```

> Modal dialogs can be stacked on top of each other. A modal dialog can open another modal dialog, or several modeless dialogs, which again can open modal or modeless dialogs. The implementation relies on a server side only state tree feature called [classname]`InertData`, which makes it possible to make a component/element/state node and its children not accept any updates from client side. The inert state is by default inherited to child nodes, except that any child can declare itself to ignore parent inert state which means that updates are allowed for itself and its children, unless those are explicitly made inert.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Modal dialogs can be stacked on top of each other, but only the latest will be active.
A modal dialog can open another modal dialog, or several modeless dialogs, which again can open modal or modeless dialogs.
The implementation relies on a server side only state tree feature called [classname]`InertData`, which makes it possible to make a component/element/state node and its children not accept any updates from client side. 
The inert state is by default inherited to child nodes, except that any child can declare itself to ignore parent inert state which means that updates are allowed for itself and its children, unless those are explicitly made inert.
```

Reviewer 2: The last part of ignoring parent state seem to be missing any samples or extra information.

[methodname]`UI.addModal()`.
[methodname]`UI.setChildComponentModal()`.
[methodname]`UI.hasModalComponent()`.
[methodname]`UI.addToModalComponent()`.

> == Adding a Modal Component

Reviewer 2: This should probably be `Handling Component Modality` instead of `adding a modal component`

Also paragraph seems to say that only removing the component will make the modality go away, even though you can specify with setChildComponentModal that it is not modal anymore.

Reviewer 2: The rest from here needs editing as it is mostly javaDoc place holders

---
title: Server-Side Modality
description: How to prevent interactions on the server side.
order: 700
layout: page
---

= Server-Side Modality

A dialog with a client-side modality curtain alone does not disable the UI to which it belongs to on the server side. If the dialog or its modality curtain is removed from the DOM on the client side, its parent UI remains active on the server and can be interacted with.

To fully prevent interactions with components that are underneath a modal dialog (or any modal component, for that matter) Flow has a feature called server-side modality.
This feature makes Flow ignore interactions with all components that are not childern of the modal component while it is attached or marked as modal.
The components that are not children of the modal component are said to be _inert_, that is, they are not available for interaction.

> As the server-side modality feature is purely a server side security feature that only prevents interaction, it does not add a modality curtain or change the visible state of the components in the UI. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As the server-side modality feature is purely a server-side security feature that only prevents interaction, it does not add a modality curtain or change the visible state of the components in the UI. 
```

Adding a modality curtain should be handled by the component.

> Router Links, and navigation in general, are an exception. Navigation is allowed also when inert as there is no way to entirely block navigation on the server side.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Router Links, and navigation in general, are an exception.
Navigation is also allowed when inert, as there is no way to block navigation entirely on the server side.
```

> The [classname]`UI` class provides methods that allow working with the server side modality feature. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [classname]`UI` class provides methods that allow working with the server-side modality feature. 
```

The following Vaadin components make use of the feature: Dialog, Notification and Login View.

> Modal dialogs can be stacked on top of each other, but only the latest will be active.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Modal dialogs can be stacked on top of each other, but only the most recent will be active.
```

To fully prevent interactions with components that are underneath a modal dialog (or any modal component, for that matter) Flow has a feature called server-side modality.
This feature makes Flow ignore interactions with all components that are not childern of the modal component while it is attached or marked as modal.
The components that are not children of the modal component are said to be _inert_, that is, they are not available for interaction.

As the server-side modality feature is purely a server-side security feature that only prevents interaction, it does not add a modality curtain or change the visible state of the components in the UI. 
Adding a modality curtain should be handled by the component.

Router Links, and navigation in general, are an exception.
Navigation is also allowed when inert, as there is no way to block navigation entirely on the server side.

The [classname]`UI` class provides methods that allow working with the server-side modality feature. 
The following Vaadin components make use of the feature: Dialog, Notification and Login View.

Modal dialogs can be stacked on top of each other, but only the most recent will be active.

> A modal dialog can open another modal dialog, or several modeless dialogs, which again can open modal or modeless dialogs.

Reviewer 4: The upgrade guide mentions the breaking change that opening dialogs when a modal dialog is active causes them to become children, and hence all close if the modal dialog is closed (second bullet in:
https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/v14-23-upgrade/essential-steps/#miscellaneous-changes). I feel this could be mentioned here as well.

Reviewer 2: Added a note about this.
